The es-include function
=======================

In this file:
- Introduction
- Parameters
	- template
	- method
- Permissions
	- AllowedTemplates
	- AllowedMethods
- Implementations
	- nxcESITypeNone
	- nxcESITypePHP
	- nxcESITypeESI

------------
Introduction
------------

This template function is used to include the content of another template, or
the result of a method call, in the location of the call to the function.

In normal circumstances, this inclusion will be done by the edge proxy, using
ESI, but configuration allows you to use other implementations if you need to.


----------
Parameters
----------

This function recognizes two parameters, of which at least one must be present
and non-empty, and uses any other parameters as both cache keys and as
parameters sent to the template or method call.

All parameters must have a string value to be accepted.

This is because some implementations (including the main ESI one) will not run
the given template in the current process, and thus must be able to pass the
values to the new process, which is really only possible when they are strings.

For convenience, numbers are automatically converted to their string
equivalents, booleans are translated to the strings 'true' or 'false' depending
on their value, and null values are treated as if that parameter was not given.


template
--------

The first of the recognized parameters is the "template" parameter, which
specifies which template to include.

Example: {es-include template='design:include/node-view.tpl' node_id=2}

This example would use the design resource to find the 'include/node-view.tpl'
template, and would include it here. In that template, the $node_id variable
would be set to 2.


method
------

The second recognized parameter is the "method" parameter, which specifies
which method to call, and on which class.

If the "template" parameter is given, the "method" parameter is ignored and is
passed to the template as if it was not recognized.

The value of this parameter should be the class name, followed by a separator,
followed by the method name.

The separator, in addition to separating the class and method names, specifies
whether the method should be called statically or on an instance of the class.

The method will be called with one parameter, which is an associative array
containing the given parameters with the parameter name as key, and should
return a string containing the content to be included.

Example 1: {es-include method='nxcExample::hello' name='world'}

This example would call the static hello method on the nxcExample class, with
one parameter that is an array containing the key 'name' with value 'world'.

Example 2: {es-include method='nxcExample->helloWorld'}

This example would call the helloWorld method on a new instance of the
nxcExample class (constructed with no parameters), with one parameter that is
an empty array.


-----------
Permissions
-----------

For security reasons, which templates and methods can be included are limited
to those specified in a configured list.

This is necessary because of the nature of HTTP and ESI, as the included
content is completely disconnected from the content that did the including.

If we did not have this security check, attackers could fetch just about any
template, and call any method on any class, with parameters of their choice
(albeit within the limitations of the one-array-parameter interface). It does
not take much imagination to see how this can be a serious security risk.

To mitigate this risk, we have to somehow limit which templates and methods can
be called upon.

We could have built in an automatic system where everything that is used in an
{es-include} call is saved to a database to later compare with what is actually
requested, but this was deemed overkill and overly complex for just about any
reasonable use case.

It was instead decided to keep a simple list in the nxc_esi.ini file that holds
the allowed inclusions.

This allows developers to easily manage which templates and methods can be
included, simply by providing an ini.append file containing the entries that
are allowed and no others.

Due to the varying formats, there are actually two such lists in the file, one
for allowed templates and one for allowed methods.

Both lists are in the [Permissions] section.


AllowedTemplates
----------------

This array is simply a list of allowed values for the template parameter.

It is worth noting that this is not a list of which actual template files can
be included, but a list of the value given to the es-include function,
including the 'design:' prefix if used.

Example:
[Permissions]
AllowedTemplates[]=design:include/node-view.tpl


AllowedMethods
--------------

This array is a list of allowed classes and methods.

The syntax of each entry is either the class name, or the class name followed
by the string '::' followed by the method name.

If an entry contains only the class name, then all methods of that class are
allowed to be called, while an entry containing a method name only allows calls
to that particular method of that particular class.

Example:
[Permissions]
AllowedMethods[]=nxcExample::hello
AllowedMethods[]=nxcHelloWorld

This example allows calls to any method on the nxcHelloWorld class, and calls
to the hello method on the nxcExample class. Unless added somewhere else, the
helloWorld method of the nxcExample class (as used above) is not allowed.


---------------
Implementations
---------------

While the es-include function is meant to be used with ESI, using different
implementations of the include mechanism is supported - so this function can be
used even on sites where the include mechanism is not based on ESI/1.0 but on
something else.

As an example, you could provide an implementation for e.g. SSI and have that
be used instead of the default ESI-based implementation.

This extension comes with several example implementations, that can be used
as-is or as a starting point for your own.


nxcESITypeNone
--------------
This implementation simply discards the includes, and doesn't output any
content at all.

This is not likely to be useful for anything other than as a base for further
development, and maybe for testing of the core - but is used as the fall-back
implementation if the configured implementation cannot be used for some reason.

Falling back to this implementation is done mostly because it should make it
obvious to everyone that something is wrong and needs to be fixed.


nxcESITypePHP
-------------
This implementation does the inclusion server-side in PHP before sending any
output to the browser or edge processor.

It has some limitations that can make it behave somewhat differently than the
other implementations, of which the biggest is that it runs the includes in the
same PHP process as the includer, which can taint both.

This is generally only useful when no other include mechanism is available, but
you still need to see the content where it should be.


nxcESITypeESI
-------------
This is the main and default implementation, which outputs ESI/1.0
<esi:include/> tags to make the edge surrogate fetch the included content from
the server, via a module view this extension provides for that purpose.

This is the most useful of the example implementations, and can easily be used
as-is with a surrogate edge proxy that supports ESI.

When this implementation is used, and an include is called for on a page, it
automatically tells the EAS implementation that ESI is in use and processing of
it should be asked for. For convenience, it can also set a custom header to
tell the edge that the page needs ESI processing, if configured to do so.

The ESI syntax is based on the W3C document ESI Language Specification 1.0,
which can be found here: http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-esi-lang-20010804

However, not all of that specification is supported; this extension focuses
on the include functionality as per the <esi:include/> tag, as that is the most
widely supported part as far as I know, and the most immediately useful in the
context of eZ Publish (and other server-side generated sites).
